Expanded docs for organizations, workspaces, and service accounts (#7253)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/ui/workspaces.md

---
description: Workspaces are isolated environments for flows and deployments within Prefect Cloud.
tags:
    - UI
    - Prefect Cloud
    - workspaces
    - deployments
---

# Workspaces <span class="badge cloud"></span>

> A workspace is an isolated environment within Prefect Cloud for your flows and deployments. Workspaces are only available to Prefect Cloud accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A workspace is a discrete environment within Prefect Cloud for your flows and deployments. Workspaces are only available to Prefect Cloud accounts.
```

Workspaces could be used in any way you like to organize or compartmentalize your workflows. For example, you could use separate workspaces to isolate dev, staging, and prod environments, or to provide separation between different teams.

The number of available workspaces varies by [Prefect Cloud plan](https://www.prefect.io/pricing/). See [Pricing](https://www.prefect.io/pricing/) if you need additional workspaces or users.  

### Workspaces overview

When you first log into Prefect Cloud, you will be prompted to create your own initial workspace. After creating your workspace, you'll be able to view flow runs, flows, deployments, and other workspace-specific features in the Prefect Cloud UI.

![Viewing a workspace dashboard in the Prefect Cloud UI.](/img/ui/cloud-new-workspace.png)

> Select the **Prefect Logo** in the left navigation area to see all of the workspaces you can access. 

Reviewer 2: We will likely change the landing page for the Prefect Logo at some point to a more intentionally-built homepage. So when we have the opportunity like this, I think we should direct users to the "4-squares" item in the left-nav area, which is dedicated to the workspaces page (and will reliably do so in the future).

![Managing collaborators in a workspace in the Prefect Cloud UI.](/img/ui/workspace-collaborators.png)

To invite a user to become a workspace collaborator, select the **+** icon. You'll be prompted for the email address of the person you'd like to invite. Add the email address, then select **Send** to initiate the invitation. 

If the user does not already have a Prefect Cloud account, they will be able to create one when accepting the workspace collaborator invitation.

To delete a workspace collaborator, select **Remove** from the menu on the left side of the user's information on this page.

## Workspace sharing <span class="badge orgs"></span>

Within a Prefect Cloud [organization](/ui/organizations/) organization, Admins and workspace Owners may invite users and [service accounts](/ui/service-accounts/) to work in an organization workspace. In addition to giving the user access to the workspace, the Admin or Owner assigns a [workspace role](/ui/roles/) to the user. The role specifies the scope of permissions for the user within the workspace.

!!! tip "Workspace access in Prefect Cloud organizations"

>     Within an organization, users who are not Admins do not have any default access to organization workspaces. An organization Admin or workspace Owner _must_ invite users to organizations and apply workspace roles to users.

Reviewer 3: This is actually configurable on workspace sharing, the default access for users. Its service accounts that dont get the privileges conferred by default workspace access.

In an organization workspace, select **Workspace Sharing** to manage users and service accounts for the workspace. If you've previously invited users and service accounts, you'll see them listed.

![Managing sharing in a workspace in the Prefect Cloud UI.](/img/ui/workspace-sharing.png)

> To invite a user to become a workspace collaborator, select the Members **+** icon. You can select from a list of existing organization members. You can also enter the email address of the person you'd like to invite. If the user does not already have a Prefect Cloud account, they will be able to create one when accepting the invitation.

Reviewer 3: In personal accounts, you can add an arbitrary email, in orgs, you cant quite do that yet, but I will file a backlog ticket to enable. You have to add users to your org, and then your workspace.

Select a Workspace Role for the user. This will be the initial role for the user within the workspace. A workspace Owner can change this role at any time.

Select **Send** to initiate the invitation. 

To add a service account to a workspace, select the Service Accounts **+** icon. You can select from a list of existing service accounts configured for the organization. Select a Workspace Role for the service account. This will be the initial role for the service account within the workspace. A workspace Owner can change this role at any time. Select **Share** to finalize adding the service account.

> To delete a workspace collaborator or service account, select **Remove** from the menu on the left side of the user or service account information on this page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To delete a workspace collaborator or service account, select **Remove** from the menu on the right side of the user or service account information on this page.
```
